Unearthing Patterns in the Laureate Age at the Time of the Award

Created git branch ✅

    To check current branch → git branch 
    To double check main branch is up to date → git checkout main 
    Update local repository → git pull origin main 
    Create and swtich to new branch → git checkout -b [branch] 


1. Challenge 1: Calculate the Difference in the Average Monthly Death Rate ✅

    a. What was the average percentage of monthly deaths before handwashing (i.e., before June 1847)?✔️
        i. First, decided to clean up and save as 589.py 
        ii. Used some previous code to figure this out. 
    b. What was the average percentage of monthly deaths after handwashing was made obligatory? - Also used previous code. ✔️
    c. By how much did handwashing reduce the average chance of dying in childbirth in percentage terms? ✔️
    d. How do these numbers compare to the average for all the 1840s that we calculated earlier? ✔️
    e. How many times lower are the chances of dying after handwashing compared to before? ✔️
    f. SOLUTION - Yeah, just basic math. 
        
2. Challenge 2: Using Box Plots to Show How the Death Rate Changed Before and After Handwashing ✅

    a. Use NumPy's .where() function to add a column to df_monthly that shows if a particular date was before or after the start of handwashing. ✔️
        i. Reviewed documentation, https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.where.html
        ii. Tried something 
        
    b. Then use plotly to create box plot of the data before and after handwashing. ✔️
        i. Also, got a little help.
        ii. This chart is ugly...have rarely seen used.

    c. How did key statistics like the mean, max, min, 1st and 3rd quartile changed as a result of the new policy - skipped. ❌

    d. SOLUTION - Only tweak was color. ✔️

3. Challenge 3: Use Histograms to Visualise the Monthly Distribution of Outcomes ✅

    a. Create a plotly histogram to show the monthly percentage of pct_deaths ✔️
        i. Reviewed documentation, https://plotly.com/python/histograms/
        ii. Tried something, and go ta basic chart to work. 
    b. Use docs to check out the available parameters. Use the color parameter to display two overlapping histograms. - From documentation ✔️
    c. The time period of handwashing is shorter than not handwashing. Change histnorm to percent to make the time periods comparable. - Not sure, but added bins. ✔️
    d. Make the histograms slightly transparent. - Skipped. ❌
    e. Experiment with the number of bins on the histogram. Which number works well in communicating the range of outcomes? - See 3c. ✔️
    f. Just for fun, display your box plot on the top of the histogram using the marginal parameter. - Skipped ❌
    g. SOLUTION - PITA. ✔️

4. Challenge 4: Use a Kernel Density Estimate (KDE) to visualise a smooth distribution ✅

    a. Use Seaborn's .kdeplot() to create two kernel density estimates of the pct_deaths, one for before handwashing and one for after.✔️
        i. Just reading, this makes no sense.
        ii. Anyway, decided to read the documentation at https://seaborn.pydata.org/generated/seaborn.kdeplot.html
        iii. Got a little help and made it work. 

    b. Use the fill parameter to give your two distributions different colours. ✔️
    c. What weakness in the chart do you see when you just use the default parameters? - Understand time of deaths ✔️
    d. Use the clip parameter to address the problem. - Stumped ❌
    e. SOLUTION - Shit, I had it wrong. ✔️

5. Challenge 5: Use a T-Test to Show Statistical Significance ✅

    a. Import stats from scipy
    b. Use the .ttest_ind() function to calculate the t-statistic and the p-value
    c. Is the difference in the average proportion of monthly deaths statistically significant at the 99% level?
    d. SOLUTION - 
        i. Okay, completely gave up on this one and did a 'Type & Learn' 
        ii. Yeah, my use of .query() earlier broke all this.
        iii. In the end, the courseware did not even explain t-statistic and p-value




REVIEW 

    a. Compared to SOLUTION - In line 
     
    b. Ended the "day" - N/A
    
        Saved the requirements, pip freeze > requirements.txt - 
        Deactivated the virtual environment. - N/A
    
    c. Merged it all back ✅
        
        To see add my edits and confirm branch → git status 
        Make sure all edits have been added → git add . 
        To confirm all my adds there → git status 
        To commit branch → git commit -m "done with module" 
        Push up the branch → git push origin 516 

        Go back to main branch → git checkout main 
        To merge the the branch → git merge [branch]
        Push → git push origin main
    
❌⬅️✅✔️





